ok today we're going to make a really
simple dish and it's basically called
bangers and mash which is mashed potato
and sausages I'm also gonna do a little
bit of onion just to go with it so here
we go I think the first thing is choose
your potato some are better for mashing
than others but generally you can use
pretty much most potatoes have a look on
the packet if you're unsure some say
they're for mashing and some don't ok
I've peeled my potatoes now what we want
to try and do is to get these to cook
evenly throughout the potato so you
don't get these lumpy bits now one way
of ensuring that it's just pick the
middle and chop that up like so and
again same on that one do it in the
middle for all of those whoops didn't
quite do that in the middle and in mine
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
chop them up many more than that
otherwise it was all too much water so
chop them down the middle pop them in
the pan and then we're going to boil
them for a slowly boiling for about
15-20 minutes probably about 20 minutes
okay now for the cooking I'll boil the
kettle got some hot water in there saves
a bit of time so we're just going to
fill that little bit over the side there
put some solving I think it helps to
break down a potato and adds a little
bit to the flavor so put that and we're
going to tip the water away so that's
fine
pop the lid on turn the heat on and
we're going to cook it simmer over sized
or middle heat for about 15 minutes
while we're cooking the potatoes in the
back that I've moved into the bag we're
just going to put in the sausages try
and pick really nice sausages because
you know in the day is half the meal
really the sausages so try and pick the
good ones getting from the butchers or
you know there's various mates out there
that are really nice just try what do
you want so popping in the oil obviously
you can grill these if you're a little
bit more health-conscious you haven't
got a you know fry them but it's
probably easier so what I'm gonna do is
just pop a lid on those and I'm going to
turn them over get them nice and brown
on the ice outside they're probably only
going to take about 10 minutes in total
or get internal heat they're not too
I just want to brown and without uh
cooking today so there's your bangers
there's your match so now we've got the
sausages on the next thing to put on
we've got a frying pan here is for your
onions so what we want to do is chop
them up okay I've got the youngers all
chopped 2 onions I've used we've got the
oil turn it up a little bit to make sure
it's nice and hot and then what we're
going to do is just pour in the onions
now you can cook those either until they
caramelize which is slightly brown on
the outside which is probably what I'm
gonna do or you can cook them a little
bit less now you were at a 10-minute
stage a quick test and it's a really
good one
it's just to stick a knife in if you can
get it in and see if the potatoes are
done these are clearly not done ten
minute mark probably another 10 minutes
outside you but I'll check them just
before then okay we're at the 15 minute
mark now I'm just going to check these
potatoes yeah they're just slightly
falling off what you want to do with the
players is slightly overcook them rather
than undercook them otherwise you get
the lump so five more minutes so 20
minutes for the potatoes and I think
we're done and then we're going out the
perfect mash okay we're at the 20 minute
stage and I think the potatoes are done
now so we're just going to check that if
you put the knife in
they definitely fall off if they're
hesitant they're not quite done so what
I'm now going to do is drain as much
water out as possible I'm probably going
to use a lid for that and just tip it
way down the drain we're not going to
use that water for anything at the
moment
okay I've I've put the potato back on
the hob which is I mean I've actually
got it turned off so it's really nice
and hot now now what we want to do with
the potato is just gently chop it like
so and then we're going to add a little
bit at that time and mix it all up
it's all pretty straightforward now what
we can do is add a little bit of salt
again to the whole mixture a little bit
of pepper so obviously I better taste
and then we're going to pop in a little
bit of butter now if you're a bit
health-conscious obviously you can use a
little bit less I know some of you out
there are
I'm just going to put that in like so
and just gently kind of mix it all
together and try and get as many of
those lumps out as possible and then I'm
going to use one of these these are
great they make it job easy if you
haven't got one of these you can mix it
by hand don't worry if you've spilled
bit on the edges and we're on it's
looking good now looking good try and
get as many of those things out now the
important thing is when you're mixing my
place though you don't want to keep
mixing a mix and mixing
otherwise it ends up starting to be like
glue almost you know now if you like
your mashed potato a little bit creamier
all I personally do but not too creamy
you can add a little bit of milk again
any sort of meal semi skim skimmed
whatever you've got don't go overboard
you can always have a little bit more
after but it makes it much more creamy I
know my children like it more creamy but
that's really nice as we've got it
they're lovely now there's a lot of
things you can add to the mashed potato
personally I prefer the chives actually
there we are nice fine fresh chives and
you can add some of those with it put
that on the plate and eat it
hey there we've got it mashed potato
this one's got chives on it you can just
pop a couple of nice sausages on top
there like so and I've got a little bit
vegetable just got a little bit of
cabbage there a lot a bit of cabbage
himself but obviously you can have peas
or whatever you like and finally got a
little bit caramelized onion always goes
well like side then we can just put a
little bit of gravy on it
and you've got a fantastic meal so
obviously put it is and if you like a
little bit more pepper you can put it on
as you want that is fantastic food